---
title: VL - Data
date: 2023-04-16
categories: [Vulnlab, CTF, Linux]
tags: [Vulnlab, CTF, Linux, Grafana, Docker]
pin: true
---

## Recon
Nmap returns only port 3000 and 22 open. On port 3000 is Grafana version 8.0.0 running.
Version 8.0.0 is vulnerable for a unauthorized LFI [CVE-2021-43798](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/50581)

It is important to understand what is vulnerable if we take a look at the code the request is sent to `/public/plugins/<random_plugin>` from there the LFI is being executed by adding multiple `../../../` this way we go down the directories and can include another file from the server. 

**I highly recommend exploiting it manually or creating your own script to maximize your learnings.**
## Initial Access
We can retrieve the database by going to `/var/lib/grafana/grafana.db` this returns us a sqlite3 database file with the hashed password and the salt used in it. By researching a bit how Grafana handles the encryption I stumbled against the following blogpost [VulnCheck](https://www.vulncheck.com/blog/grafana-cve-2021-43798).

In the blogpost they showed a small script to convert the password + salt to a hashcat likeable format. I changed  the script a little bit to make it more user friendly [Grafana2Hash](https://github.com/Bushidosan/Grafana2Hash). 

The interesting code in Grafana:
```go
// EncodePassword encodes a password using PBKDF2.
func EncodePassword(password string, salt string) (string, error) {
newPasswd := pbkdf2.Key([]byte(password), []byte(salt), 10000, 50, sha256.New)
return hex.EncodeToString(newPasswd), nil
}
```
In the code we can see how the password get stored and that it is hex encoded before being saved in the database.
By using the script we can convert it and feed it to Hashcat to crack it.
```bash
hashcat -m 10900 hash.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 
```
We can now log in as Boris into Grafana but notice pretty quickly that we have no permissions to do anything, we can reuse the password via SSH to gain access to the Boris user.


## Privilege Escalation
Running sudo -l shows that we can run docker exec as root. There also isn't a Grafana user in the home directory but the `/etc/passwd` we retrieved earlier did show us the Grafana user, so this is most likely running in a container. We can get privileged access to the container as the root user `--privileged -u 0`:
```bash
sudo /snap/bin/docker exec --privileged -u 0 -it grafana /bin/sh
```

As a privileged user within the container we have access to /dev/ and are able to mount the disk of the VM:

```bash
mkdir -p /mnt/bushidosan
mount /dev/xvda1 /mnt/bushidosan
```
By going to `/mnt/bushidosan/root/` we can now obtain the root flag.

## Conclusion
I enjoyed this Vulnlab box a lot, it most likely is labeled easy as the path is visible but still requires some research in order to obtain the goals. The most challenging part for me was the encryption part as it took some time to figure out how this exactly worked. Overall an amazing box which teached me a couple new tricks!

If you would like to try this machine out yourself: [Vulndev.io](https://vulndev.io/lab/)
